---
title: "John M. Pinch (1920-2004)"
next: >-
  John M. Pinch, 83, of 2005 Barclay St., Maplewood, Minn., formerly of Dubuque and Epworth, Iowa, died Friday, Jan. 9, 2004, at Pillars Hospice Home, Maplewood.
url: /john-m-pinch/obituary/
tags:
  - John M. Pinch
  - obituary
  - Telegraph Herald
---
> John M. Pinch, 83, of 2005 Barclay St., Maplewood, Minn., formerly of Dubuque and Epworth, Iowa, died Friday, Jan. 9, 2004, at Pillars Hospice Home, Maplewood.
> 
> Services will be at 11 a.m. Monday at Reiff Funeral Home, Epworth, with the Rev. Terri Elder officiating. Burial will be in Highview Cemetery, Epworth, where military rites will be accorded by the Epworth American Legion John White Post 650 and the New Vienna (Iowa)Veterans of Foreign Wars Post 7736. Friends may call from 6 to 9 p.m. today at the funeral home.
>
> Mr. Pinch worked as sales manager for Marshall Fields in Minneapolis for many years.
>
> He was born on Feb. 8, 1920, in Farley, Iowa, son of Thomas J. and Regina B. (McKinney) Pinch. He graduated from Epworth High School. He married Dorothy Reed on Jan. 6, 1945, in Marietta, Okla.
>
> He was a veteran, having served in the Army as a Tech Sergeant for 51 months and in the National Guard for four years.
>
> He was a member of United Commercial Travelers of America for 52 years. He also was a member of Veterans of Foreign Wars of North St. Paul Post 1350.
>
> He loved fishing, hunting and gardening.
>
> Surviving are his wife, Dorothy Pinch, of Maplewood; two children, Anna M. Quinn and Rodney J. (Barb) Pinch, both of Stillwater, Minn.; five grandchildren, Michael J. Quinn, of Hugo, Minn., Michelle A. Quinn, of Maplewood, David Pinch, of Minneapolis, Jason Pinch, of Hyde Park, N.Y., and James Pinch, of Stillwater; two great-grandchildren, Jacob Carlson and Justin Quinn, both of Maplewood; and many nieces, nephews, friends and neighbors.
>
> He was preceded in death by his parents; and two sisters, Imogene (Cliff) Weeks and Marie (Jim) Farley.